Test JSON top-level maps and add documentation about serialization formats (#2796)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/syntax-reference.rst

For more information, see :ref:`running-ksql-command-line`.

.. _data-types:

===============
KSQL data types
===============

KSQL supports the following data types:

Primitive Types
---------------

KSQL supports the following primitive data types:

-  ``BOOLEAN``

> -  ``INTEGER``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``INTEGER`` (or ``INT``)
```

Author: done.

``MAP<KeyType, ValueType>``. For example, ``MAP<STRING, INT>`` defines a map with string keys and
integer values.

Access the values of a map by using the ``[]`` operator and passing in the key. For example,
``SOME_MAP['cost']`` retrieves the value for the entry with key ``cost``, or ``null``
For more information, see :ref:`operators`.

Struct
------

``STRUCT<FieldName FieldType, ...>``

.. note:: The ``DELIMITED`` format doesn't support structs.

KSQL supports fields that are structs. A struct represents strongly typed structured data. A struct
is an ordered collection of named fields that have a specific type. The field types can be any valid
KSQL type.

You can define a structs within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement by using the syntax
``STRUCT<FieldName FieldType, ...>``. For example, ``STRUCT<ID BIGINT, NAME STRING, AGE INT>``
defines a struct with three fields, with the supplied name and type.

Access the fields of a struct by using the ``->`` operator. For example, ``SOME_STRUCT->ID``
retrieves the value of the struct's ``ID`` field. For more information, see :ref:`operators`.

===============
KSQL statements
===============

.. tip::

>     - KSQL statements must be terminated with a semicolon (``;``).

Reviewer: this isn't the case for CliSpecificStatements (e.g. `exit` and `clear`) but that's probably okay to omit

Author: Yeah, that's probably better called out in the CLI specific bits.

For more information, see :ref:`running-ksql-command-line`.

.. _data-types:

===============
KSQL data types
===============

KSQL supports the following data types:

Primitive Types
---------------

KSQL supports the following primitive data types:

-  ``BOOLEAN``
-  ``INTEGER``
-  ``BIGINT``
-  ``DOUBLE``
-  ``VARCHAR`` (or ``STRING``)

Array
-----

``ARRAY<ElementType>``

> Note: the ``DELIMITED`` format does not support arrays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The ``DELIMITED`` format doesn't support arrays.
```

> KSQL supports fields that are arrays of another type. The array must have homogeneous elements i.e.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KSQL supports fields that are arrays of another type. All of the elements in the array
```

> all the elements must be of the same type. The element type can be any valid KSQL type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
must be of the same type. The element type can be any valid KSQL type.
```

> Arrays can be defined within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement using the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arrays can be defined within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement by using the syntax
```

> ``ARRAY<ElementType>``, for example ``ARRAY<INT>`` will define an array of integers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``ARRAY<ElementType>``. For example, ``ARRAY<INT>`` defines an array of integers.
```

> The elements of an array are zero-indexed and can be accessed using the ``[]`` operator passing in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The elements of an array are zero-indexed and can be accessed by using the ``[]`` operator and passing in
```

> the index, for example ``SOME_ARRAY[0]`` will retrieve the first element from the array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the index. For example, ``SOME_ARRAY[0]`` retrieves the first element from the array.
```

> See :ref:`operators` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see :ref:`operators`.
```

Map
---

``MAP<KeyType, ValueType>``

> Note: the ``DELIMITED`` format does not support maps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The ``DELIMITED`` format doesn't support maps.
```

> KSQL supports fields that are maps. A map has a key and value type. The map must have homogeneous

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KSQL supports fields that are maps. A map has a key and value type.
```

> key and values i.e. all the keys must be of the same type and all the values must be also be of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the keys must be of the same type, and all the values must be also be of the
```

same type. Currently only ``STRING`` keys are supported. The value type can be any valid KSQL type.

> Maps can be defined within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement using the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define a map within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement, by using the syntax
```

> ``MAP<KeyType, ValueType>``, for example ``MAP<STRING, INT>`` will define a map of string keys to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``MAP<KeyType, ValueType>``. For example, ``MAP<STRING, INT>`` defines a map of string keys to
```

integer values.

> The values in a map can be accessed using the ``[]`` operator passing on the key, for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access values in a map by using the ``[]`` operator and passing in the key. For example,
```

> ``SOME_MAP['cost']`` will return the value from the map for the entry with key ``cost``, or ``null``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``SOME_MAP['cost']`` returns the value for the entry with key ``cost``, or ``null``
```

> if no such entry exists. See :ref:`operators` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if no such entry exists. For more information, see :ref:`operators`.
```

Struct
------

``STRUCT<FieldName FieldType, ...>``

> Note: the ``DELIMITED`` format does not support structs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The ``DELIMITED`` format does not support structs.
```

> KSQL supports fields that are structs. A struct represents stongly typed structured data. A struct

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
KSQL supports fields that are structs. A struct represents strongly typed, structured data. A struct
```

is an ordered collection of named fields that have a specific type. The field types can be any valid
KSQL type.

> Maps can be defined within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement using the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define a struct within a ``CREATE TABLE`` or ``CREATE STREAM`` statement by using the syntax
```

> ``STRUCT<FieldName FieldType, ...>``, for example ``STRUCT<ID BIGINT, NAME STRING, AGE INT>`` will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``STRUCT<FieldName FieldType, ...>``. For example, ``STRUCT<ID BIGINT, NAME STRING, AGE INT>`` 
```

> define a struct with three fields, with the supplied name and type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defines a struct with three fields, with the supplied name and type.
```

> The fields of a struct can be accessed using the ``->`` operator, for example ``SOME_STRUCT->ID``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access the fields of a struct by using the ``->`` operator. For example, ``SOME_STRUCT->ID``
```

> will return the value of the structs ``ID`` field. See :ref:`operators` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
returns the value of the struct's ``ID`` field. For more information, see :ref:`operators`.
```

**Description**

> Create a new stream with the specified columns and properties. Columns can be any of KSQLs supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new stream with the specified columns and properties. Columns can be any of the
```

> data types. See :ref:`data-types` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data types supported by KSQL. For more information, see :ref:`data-types`.
```

**Description**

> Create a new table with the specified columns and properties.Columns can be any of KSQLs supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new table with the specified columns and properties. Columns can be any of the 
```

> data types. See :ref:`data-types` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data types supported by KSQL. For more information, see :ref:`data-types`.
```
